# Identify-Country-Index-Based-on-World-Bank-Data
Country’s worth depends on the factors which define the country index are too many. One has to identify important factors that contribute towards worth of a country. World Bank has provided data for all these factors over 60 years, for 264 countries. Through, an attempt is made to identify important indicators which contribute towards worth of a country. Analytical hierarch process (AHP) is used to classify these factors into various groups. A hierarchy is derived for all these factors and weight age of each factor is identified using Saaty’s procedure. 
# WORLD BANK DATA
According to The World Bank, it is, "A vital source of financial and technical assistance to developing countries around the world. That is not a bank in the common sense it is made up of two unique development institutions owned by 184 member countries— the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA). High-minded words like "our mission of global poverty reduction and the improvement of living standards" would lead the reader to believe that the World Bank is some benevolent and global welfare organization. It is then, that The World Bank joins the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization as organizations that people around the world just love to hate.
## 1.1.	About World Bank

The World Bank is a United Nations worldwide monetary organization that gives loans to growing international locations for capital programs. The World Bank is part of the World Bank Group, and a member of the United Nations Development Group. The World Bank's professional intention is the reduction of poverty. According to its Articles of Agreement, all its choices have to be guided through a dedication to the promoting of foreign funding and worldwide exchange and to the facilitation of capital funding. The World Bank is sort of a cooperative, made from 189 member countries. These member countries, or shareholders, are represented through bord of governor who're the remaining policymakers on the World Bank. Generally, the governors are member countries' ministers of finance or ministers of development. They meet as soon as a 12 months on the Annual conferences. of the Boards of Governors of the World Bank Group and International Monetary Fund. The governors delegate precise obligations to twenty-five Executive Directors, who work on-web website online on the Bank. The 5 biggest shareholders appoint an executive director, even as different member countries are represented through elected executive directors. • The World Bank Group President chairs conferences of the Boards of Directors and is accountable for general control of the Bank. The President is chosen through the Board of Executive Directors for a 5-yr, renewable term. • The Executive Directors make up the Boards of Directors of the World Bank. They usually meet at the least two times every week to supervise the Bank's business, which includes approval of loans and guarantees, new policies, the executive budget, country assistance strategies and borrowing and economic choices.
The World Bank operates day-to-day under the leadership and direction of the president, management and senior staff, and the vice presidents in charge of Global Practices, Cross-Cutting Solutions Areas, regions, and functions.

## 1.3.	World Bank Data  Indicators:
World Bank collects data from different countries regarding different sectors. The
data thus collected is then displayed on World Bank official web site. These indicators define the quantitative information of that  sectors. The data collected is so vast that it is very difficult to arrive at any conclusion to identify how a country is progressing, all these indicator are to be analyzed considering the huge number of indicators and their variations, an attempt is made to divide the indicators into groups and a hierarchy is generated. This hierarchy will help in individually to derive a conclusion for each sector. The grouping of indicators will reduce the efforts of an individual to generate country index.

# IDENTIFYING IMPORTANT FACTORS TO REPRESENT COUNTRY'S WORTH USING AHP BASED ON WORLD BANK DATA 
 
## Introduction 
World Development Indicators in World Bank Data having more than 1440 Indicators converted into single index profile of any country as per weightage given towards contribution for the country worth in overall development by conceptual study of qualitatively and quantitatively taken decision using multi-criteria decision making or analytic hierarchical process (AHP) and Pareto’s law.
A hierarchy of all indicators available on World Bank Data is generated. From these factors, only most contributing World Development Indicators which are tell us about the Country worth and providing knowledge for saturation of overall development by applying Analytical Hierarchical Process are identified. All Indicators of Economic policy and debt, Environment, Education, Population and Health, Infrastructure, Poverty, Private Sector and Trade, Public Sector, Land Used, Social Protection and Labor have included and statistically or conceptually analyzed by using AHP for countries data analysis and development. From this analysis only most contributing factors for analysis and sorting data for single index sheet preparing which helps conceptual knowledge on countries worth.
This designed for deriving country which is preferred best alternative and also possession of. Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) method with the help of all 127 most
contributing factors and calculated normalized weightage of these factors from previously
calculated weightage using AHP for All Indicators of Economic policy and debt, Environment, Education, Population and Health, Infrastructure, Poverty, Private Sector and Trade, Public Sector, Land Used, Social Protection and Labor those which calculated from Pareto’s law.
When the most contributed World development indicators which tell us about country worth find out then applying various time series analysis method study the behavior of country worth is possible. And by studying the behavior of country index as per variation of time then it is possible to apply different forecasting method on it. And results of that forecasting model will gives the forecasting data and on that forecasting when again Applied MCDM technics.  Like TOPSIS then it is very possible that behavior country Index(Country Worth ) will be predicted for next some of year.

## Methodology: 
Hierarchical network models are iterative algorithms for creating networks which are able to reproduce the unique properties of the scale-free topology and the high clustering of the nodes at the same time. All these factors are divided into ten most important contributing factors those are All Indicator’s of Economic policy and debt, Environment, Education, Population and Health, Infrastructure, Poverty, Private Sector and Trade, Public Sector, Land used, Social Protection and Labor according to their contribution for worth of country in each sector. These indicator are further divided into sub factors using conceptual analysis of qualitative analytical hierarchy process (AHP) for data formulation and segmentation according to their similarities in nature of data.  
It is impossible to display all factors in the hierarchy. All the factors are represented in coded form just for the sake of simplicity. Main factors are coded as A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J and K next level of sub factors are coded as per clustering of factors at their node.

## Data Collection 
Data taken for analysis is from World Bank site. These consist of huge number of factors from only future indicators. These data divided into ten most important indicators with all other factors arranged as per their conceptual relation towards main factor. Factors arranged with relation to their parent and child nodes. All nodes are clustered together towards their parent node. 


## Hierarchical tree of World Bank Development indicators

### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Economic Policy and Debt.
 All world development indicators of country economic policy and debt having 280 indicator’s which are again divided into main four sub factors  i.e. Balance of payment, External Debt, National Accounts and Financial Sector. Sub factors are arranged as per relational similarities and conceptual analysis of factors which are Capital And Financial Excel, Current Account, Reserves And Other Items, .Debt Outstanding, Debt Ratios And Other Items, Debt Service, Net Flow, Reserves And Other Items, Adjusted Savings And Income, Growth Rates, Shares Of GDP And Other, Us$ At Constant Price, Official Development Assistance, Purchasing Power Parity, Access, Assets, Capital Markets, Exchange Rates And Price, Interest Rates, Monetary Holding (Liabilities) using AHP model.  

### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Education.
 All world development indicators of country education having 156 indicator’s which are again divided into main four sub factors  i.e. Efficiency, Inputs, outputs, Participation. Sub factors are arranged as per relational similarities and conceptual analysis of factors which are Gross And Net Intake Ratio. Over-Age Students, Persistence To Grade, Progression, Repeaters, Expenditure, Teacher Ratios, Trained Teachers, Educational Attainment, Population 25+, Female(%) Cumulative, Literacy Rate Adult Female Ages 15 And Above, Completion Rate, Adjusted Net Enrolment Rate, Adolescents Out Of School, Children Out Of School, Primary Education Pupils, School Enrolment Pre-primary And Primary, School Enrolment Secondary, School Enrolment Tertiary, Secondary Education using AHP model towards their main factors.

 ### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Environment .
  All world development indicators of country Environment  having 156 indicator’s which are again divided into main six sub factors  i.e. Agricultural Production, Biodiversity And Protected Areas, Density And Urbanization, Emissions, Energy Production And Use, Freshwater, Natural Resources Contribution To GDP. Sub factors are arranged as per relational similarities and conceptual analysis of factors which are population density, electricity and energy using AHP model towards their main factors.

### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Land Used.
 All world development indicators of country education having 31 indicator’s which are again divided into main four sub factors  i.e  For agriculture, For Forestry and For living. using AHP model towards their main factors.

### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Population and Health 
 All world development indicators of country population and health having 258 indicator’s which are again divided into main four sub factors  i.e. Disease Prevention, .Participation And Access, Public Life And Decision Making, Health Systems, Mortality, Nutrition, Dynamics ,Structure, .Reproductive Health and Risk Factors. Sub factors are arranged as per relational similarities and conceptual analysis of factors which are Domestic General Government Health Expenditure, Current Health Expenditure, External Health Expenditure, Other Items Regarding To Health Expenditure, Mortality Rate, Death, Other Mortality, Prevalence Of Anemia, Other Prevalence, Other Items, Populations Ages 00-04, Populations Ages 05-19, Population Ages 15-64, Populations Ages 20-59, Population Ages 60 And Above, Total Population, HIV, Tobacco, .Alcohol, .Other Items using AHP model towards their main factors.
### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Infrastructure .
 All world development indicators of country Infrastructure having 39 indicator’s which are again divided into main four sub factors  i.e. Communications Technology And Transportation using AHP model towards their main factors.

### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Poverty.
 All world development indicators of country poverty having 29 indicator’s which are again divided into main three sub factors  i.e. Income Distribution, Poverty Rate’s and Shared Prosperity. using AHP model towards their main factors.

### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Private Sector and Trade.
 All world development indicators of country privet sector and trade having 124 indicator’s which are again divided into main four sub factors  i.e. Business Environment, Exports, Import, Private Infrastructure Investment, Tariffs, Trade Facilitation, Trade Indexes, Trade Price Indices, Travel And Tourism. Sub factors are arranged as per relational similarities and conceptual analysis of factors which are Business Start-Up, Firms, Other Items, .Time Required To Start New Business, Other Items, Manufactures And Merchandise Export, Other Items Export, Manufactures And Merchandise Import, Other Items Import, Tariff Rate, Bound Rate, Share Of Tariff, .Binding Coverage, Logistics Performance  Index and Import Export Time using AHP model towards their main factors.
 
### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Public Sector.
 All world development indicators of country Public Sector having 159 indicator’s which are again divided into main four sub factors i.e. Conflict And Fragility, Defense And Arms Trade, Government Financing, Policy And Institutions. Sub factors are arranged as per relational similarities and conceptual analysis of factors which are Deficit And Financing, Expense, Revenue, CPIA, Human Capital Index(HCI), And Other Items using AHP model towards their main factors. 
### Hierarchy Tree for Factors Related to Social Protection and Labor Laws.
 All world development indicators of country Social Protection and Labor Laws having 167 indicator’s which are again divided into main four sub factors i.e. Economic Activity, Labor Force Structure, Migration, Performance, Unemployment, Social Health. Sub factors are arranged as per relational similarities and conceptual analysis of factors which are Child Employment, Average Working Hour Of Children, Contributing Family Worker, Employers And Employment, Employment To Population, Part Time, Full Time, Self , Vulnerable And Informal Employment, Wage And Salaried Worker, Labor Force Participation Rate For Ages15-24, Labor Participation Rate Ages 15+, Labor Fore With Advance Education, Labor Force With Intermediate Education, Total Labor Force, Adequacy Of Social, Benefit Incidence Of Social, Coverage Of Social Protection And Labor Programs, Share Of Youth Not In Education, .Unemployment With Advanced Education, Unemployment With Basic Education, Unemployment Labor Force, .Unemployment Labor Force Ages 15-24 And Universal Health Care using AHP model towards their main factors.
                              
# IDENTIFYING WEIGHTAGES BASED ON WORLD BANK DATA

## 3.1.  World Bank Data for Weightage Analysis Using AHP
 The qualitative as well as quantitative approaches in constructing a conceptual multi-level hierarchy for studying most contributing and more weightage of factors towards countries growth, stability and saturation in overall development are derived. One has to identify important indicators that contribute towards worth of a country. It is difficult to derive any conclusion from all these data since, the indicators are too many. An attempt is made to identify important indicators and their weightage which contribute towards worth of a country.Factor analysis not only enables us to discover new structural knowledge from survey data, but also reduces large number of concepts into smaller and manageable factor groups (high-level concepts). From the later perspective factor analysis scales large data down to a manageable size. Once we obtain a small and manageable number of concepts (factors), it becomes easier to build higher-level hierarchy on top of the factor analysis result. The concern is to add higher-level hierarchy in an objective and justifiable manner. An appropriate name (concept) to each of the factor group is associated which is obtained from the factor analysis.  The high-order construct model to add up higher level hierarchy. This phase of hierarchy building is qualitative since it relies on the domain expert’s insight and intuition. However its objective is justified by the validity test procedures of the high-order construct model. 
All World Bank data future indicators are decomposed into a hierarchy of criteria and alternatives which then synthesized to determine relative rankings of alternatives both qualitative and quantitative criteria can be compared using informed judgments to derive weights and priorities. Using judgments to determine the ranking of the criteria also one can derive by using pair wise comparisons, the relative importance of one criterion over another can be expressed. 
All Indicator’s of Economic policy and debt, Environment, Education, Population and Health, Infrastructure, Poverty, Private Sector and Trade, Public Sector, Land used, Social Protection and Labor are considered and statistically analyzed by using Pareto analysis for country growth of economy. From this analytical and statistical derivation contributing factors which contribute towards country’s growth, stability, saturation and over all development of economy are identified. 
 
 According to Pareto’s rule, reduction of all indicators to  main indicators which controls country’s overall worth. So, 20% of indicators contributes  80% information of country worth .
## 3.4.  AHP Model 
 It is widely recognized of Saaty who locate AHP version, and via the qualitative multicriteria decision-making, AHP version can get the problem of quantitative evaluation. AHP version can divide all elements into interrelated ones which have an effect on the collection withinside the equal degree order, and evaluate with every other’s via way of means of a qualitative description. And then AHP version use mathematical calculations to mirror the relative significance of factors at every degree via way of means of the order of significance, via all of the calculation of the relative significance of the tiers of the whole orders amongst all factors. AHP version is consisted as a multi-degree hierarchical structure, and in line with the distinction of the goals and the characteristic of the aim, the gadget is split into goal layer, rule layer and software tips for distinct tiers of layers. In the technique of evaluation withinside the funding of water infrastructure, the object take funding performance as a goal degree of output signs, and take the relevance, performance, effectiveness and sustainability signs as a content material of the guideline of thumb degree. Indicators in rule degree are following:

### 3.4.1. Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) 
AHP is one of MCDM problem solving process.. 
Real world decision problems  
Multiple diverse criteria 
Qualitative as well as quantitative information 
Information is decomposed into a hierarchy of alternatives and criteria  
Information is then synthesized to determine relative ranking of alternatives  
Both qualitative and quantitative information can be compared using informed judgments to derive weights and priorities 

### 3.4.2.  Relative Importance Saaty’s Scale for Criteria and Alternatives 
Table no. 3.2. .  Relative Importance Saaty’s Scale for Criteria and Alternatives
Intensify of importance	Definition	Explanation
1 Equal importance	Two factor contribute equally to the objective.
3	Somewhat more importance	Experience and judgement strongly favor one over the other
5	Much more importance	Experience and judgment strongly favor one over other.  
7	Very much importance 	Experience and judgement very strongly favor one over the other. Its importance is demonstrated in practice.
9	Absolute more importance 	The evidence favoring one over the other is of the highest possible validity.
2,4,6,8	Intermediate importance	When compromise is needed.
 
 As  analytical hierarchical process applied on all indicators of Economic policy and debt, Environment, Education, Population and Health, Infrastructure, Poverty, Private Sector and Trade, Public Sector, Land used, Social Protection and Labour . as per weightage of come out form it is ranked and consistency index is is checked if consistency index value is  less than 0.1 then the it consider as the feasible solution. Its details you can find in the appendix section. By this consistency index  factors which having maximum weightage are  taken as indicator which contribute max toward the country worth. By shorting and most contributing indicator from analytical hierarchical process most contributing indicators and its weightage  is funded and reduction of 1440 indicator’s to 127 indicators is possible.  

### 3.4.3. Methodology For Normalized Weight
From AHP and Pareto analysis weightages of all 127 most contributing Indicators  is obtained, but weightages calculated are each sector wise for different levels as per clustering of factors at  their nodes in the hierarchy. So, weightages of 127 Indicators are different at different level so normalization of weightage is needed so for that local Weightages are normalized for converting sum of weightages are one. For further analysis weightages are normalized using new methodology which shown as follow,

                           Normalized Weightage=(Individual Weightage)/(Total Weightage)    ………….
			   
### 3.4.4. Conclusion based on AHP:
After application of analytical hierarchical process to all indicators of Economic policy and debt, Environment, Education, Population and Health, Infrastructure, Poverty, Private Sector and Trade, Public Sector, Land used, Social Protection and Labour got consistency index less than 0.1 which shown on above Table. By this consistency value we conclude, factors which are taken for all factors are more consistencies and contributing towards Country worth. Also, By help of AHP reduction of non-contributing factors. So, it also helps in data sorting and easy for making country index by taking above contributing and consistency indicators.




# COUNTRY INDEX BY TOPSIS

## 4.1. TOPSIS Methodology.
 Data having 127 most contributing indicators for 264 countries derived from the analysis
for the year 1960-2019. From these we have calculated mean of each factor for 264 countries
from 1960-2019. Similarly mean calculated for all 93 most contributing factors and arranged in
descending order. Only 150 countries w1hich are most contribution to all 127 factors have taken for analysis using Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) method. For applying TOPSIS method, All 150 countries as alternatives and 127 most contributing Indicators as criteria has taken as follow.

## 4.2. Data For Using TOPSIS.
 World Bank data has more than 1440 factors having 264 countries from the year 1960-2019 of 60 years . Those indicators are used for making hierarchical tree using conceptual analysis. Clustering of all indicators at one node which again and again divided into child nodes. There is only relation between their parent and child node but not with siblings. Using Pareto’s law we calculated only 127 most contributing indicators in which depend for worth of Country. Consistency of those contributing indicators checked by qualitative and quantitative analysis using analytical hierarchical process (AHP) and normalized weightages of all factors calculated from previously calculated weightage of these worth contribution indicators data as per their conceptual data analysis and ranking using Saaty’s table. Data having 127 most contributing factors for 264 countries derived from the analysis for the year 1960-2019. From these we have calculated mean of each factor for 264 countries from 1960-2019. Similarly mean calculated for all 127 most contributing factors and arranged in descending order. Only 150 countries which are most contribution to all 127 factors have taken for analysis using Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) method. For applying TOPSIS method, All 150 countries as alternatives and 127 most contributing factors as criteria has taken as follow, 


